NICE(1)                           User Commands                          NICE(1)

NAME
       nice - run a program with modified scheduling priority

SYNOPSIS
       nice [OPTION] [COMMAND [ARG]...]

DESCRIPTION
       Run  COMMAND with an adjusted niceness, which affects process scheduling.
       With no COMMAND, print the current niceness.  Niceness values range  from
       -20  (most  favorable  to  the  process)  to  19  (least favorable to the
       process).

       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

       -n, --adjustment=N
              add integer N to the niceness (default 10)

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
              output version information and exit


RENICE(1)                         User Commands                        RENICE(1)

NAME
       renice - alter priority of running processes

SYNOPSIS
       renice [-n] priority [-g|-p|-u] identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       renice  alters  the scheduling priority of one or more running processes.
       The first argument is the priority value to be used.  The other arguments
       are interpreted as process IDs (by default), process group IDs, user IDs,
       or user names.  renice'ing a process group causes all  processes  in  the
       process  group  to  have their scheduling priority altered.  renice'ing a
       user causes all processes owned by the user to have their scheduling pri‐
       ority altered.

OPTIONS
       -n, --priority priority
              Specify  the  scheduling  priority  to  be  used  for the process,
              process group, or user.  Use of the option -n or --priority is op‐
              tional, but when used it must be the first argument.

       -g, --pgrp
              Interpret the succeeding arguments as process group IDs.

       -p, --pid
              Interpret the succeeding arguments as process IDs (the default).

       -u, --user
              Interpret the succeeding arguments as usernames or UIDs.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.




SCHED_FIFO: Política de tiempo real FIFO con prioridades entre 1 y 99
    Una tarea de esta política se ejecutará hasta que se bloquee por E/S, sea expropiada por una tarea con mayor prioridad o ceda la CPU
